# Moving from full fledged IDE to neo vim

## Background

So I got an email notifying that my education license for my jetbrain to expire.

I have some little time thinkering with tmux, which I enjoyed a lot. I was using it with a Windows terminal so I have some back and forth with it.

While I can switch active terminal with ctrl+alt+num, it doesn't seem to carry over to other terminal software (e.g. wezterm).

That's where tmux came in, it supposedly to have the same across the systems (windows, linux, and macos).

## The destination

I have been watching ThePrimeagen for a while and I'm quite intrugied with his split keyboard from kinesis. Which I found quite interesting to use. Later I found out that he was using h, j, k, and l to move around (apparently that's where the vim motion came in).

So I bought myself a split keyboard. first I bought a sofle keyboard which has a lot of keys which help with the transitions from a normal keyboard to a split one with much more less keys.

However it wasn't long lasting because I has issues with the board which currently I still haven't have the push to fix it.

Later I bought another board which is a corne, that has much less keys which I was quite concerned because with my current setup I don't have my fn keys, which I really rarely used actually.

## Why VIM/Neo-vim

So as I have mentioned, that I really like the move from arrow key to h, j, k, l which I really used daily now. which I guess really just the base to actually move to the real thing.

I used to really like the visual studio code. I was using sublime text, which later move to atom (which I found quite un-stable) because one day I just found out all my installed plugins or config for atom just nuked, it started fresh. and another issues like it felt heavy on my machine. 

Came visual studio code which is free (You don't have to input) anything like sublime text to just install something. Now it was a very good one. But later I tried using the jetbrains product which I find very battery loaded the first time I load it. and I cannot see visual studio code the same. Because if I worked on a lot of thing, installing this and that it just became tedious.

With the jetbrains license expiring, I think it's just make sense to try out a new tools to work on the code. I will still use visual studio code because some use case it still excel, but I really want to use that vim motion to improve my workflow. Hey I mean it looks cool.
